well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about a
talking point a slogan
slogan i have heard all my life i
remember hearing this in the 80s
didn't make any sense to me then either
um
it's a conservative talking point
that gets drug out every once in a while
and it goes through
various versions um
the current version is that we need to
restore the constitution
by giving trump more power so he can do
it
sometimes this is phrased as restore the
republic as well um
it gets drug out over the years there
were different boogeymen
it uh sometimes it's democrats in the
congress sometimes it's activist judges
on the supreme court but sometimes
it's a democratic president whoever it
is is actively attempting to subvert
the constitution and we have to stop
that
because the constitution is sacred and
we have to restore the constitution
restore the republic
got it what is the constitution
when i have asked this question when
this little slogan comes up i always get
the same deer in the headlight
look what is it it's permission slip
from the states to the feds this is what
you're allowed to do
it's what it is aside from that
yeah it set up a representative
democracy
that was a republic it enshrined
property rights
it um established
you know some basic freedoms that were
supposed to be inalienable
uh but
what are you taught in civics what's the
most important thing
that the constitution did even today
as lacking in civics classes are you
learned this at a pretty early age
it established three co-equal branches
of government
and checks and balances right so what it
did
executive legislative and judicial three
co-equal branches
of government and checks and balances
so none of them could get too much power
so follow me on this
when you say we have to restore the
constitution
because branch x got too much power
what you were saying is we have to
restore a document that failed to do its
job
because it failed to do its job we have
to
go back to it that doesn't really make a
whole lot of sense
to be honest if you believe the
constitution
is a failure perhaps
you want a new one i don't know why you
would want to restore the one that
failed
doesn't make sense that's why it's
important to actually read the documents
you hold up as
icons aside from that
the current version of this giving trump
more power so he can restore the
constitution makes even less sense
we want to give a branch of government
more power the one thing
the constitution was pretty explicit
about
we don't want that co-equal branches of
government
we want to subvert the constitution and
give trump more power
so he can restore a document that
is designed to limit his power
sounds like you've been tricked
it sounds like you may have never read
the document or you didn't understand it
and uh somebody came along
and used the fact that you view it as an
icon
as something that is sacred something
that can't be changed
use that to motivate you to manipulate
you
the idea of restoring the constitution
doesn't make sense if you're going to
give a person
more power you are subverting the
constitution
if any branch was able to gain
too much power the constitution failed
aside from that
to me the constitution's actually a
pretty good framework
it had a lot of problems had a lot of
problems in the beginning it still has
some
however one of the genius parts
about the constitution is that it
includes the machinery for change
if if something was wrong it can be
fixed
within the constitution through a legal
process
the reason i say that is because when
this slogan gets brought up
when people start chanting about
restoring the constitution
it's normally done by the type of folk
who
got picked up in michigan recently
it's normally accompanied by some pretty
extreme rhetoric
that doesn't make sense
if you have read the document if you
understand it
you understand the machinery for change
to deliver on the promises
made you know that one day we the people
would actually mean we the people
all of us it was included
that machinery is there
you don't need to reach into your gun
cabinet
if the constitution has an issue
you need to use the machinery that
exists
if it is that far out if it is that
faulty
if it has failed if you believe that it
makes no sense to restore it
because it didn't do its job the whole
idea was to protect against tyranny
so if you are saying that it failed to
do that
there's no purpose in restoring it it's
time to get a new one
or we could use the machinery for change
and um maybe uh alter the way things are
done
include uh ranked choice voting
i don't know get rid of the electoral
college
get rid of the things that consolidate
power
in the hands of the few because that's
the real issue right
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day